In the data wrangling project, I gathered, assess, cleaned, stored and then proceeded to analyze & visualize the stored data.

Gathering

I gathered 3 datasets via different approach;

1. The first dataset was twitter_archive_enhanced.csv. The dataset is a comma separated value file and it was manually downloaded. This was read into a dataframe named tweet archive.

2. The second was image_predictions.tsv. The dataset is a tab separated value file and it was downloaded using code. This was also read into a dataframe named image predictions.

3. The third was gathering data from Twitter API. I was provided with two options of doing this. I went with the second option where the tweet-json.txt file for the data was already provided because Twitter up to this point has not approved my request for an elevated access on their developer’s platform.

The tweet-json.txt text file was loaded and I extracted the data I needed for each tweet data into a dataframe named tweet json.


Assessing

I assessed the individual dataset for quality and tidiness issues using both visual and programmatic approach.

8 quality and 2 tidiness issues were identified across the 3 dataset.


Cleaning

I cleaned up the 8 quality and 2 tidiness issues identified using the 'define-code-test' approach.


Storing

I stored the cleaned datasets into 2 comma separated values files named: twitter_archive_master and image_prediction_master.


Analzying and Visualizing Data

I loaded the twitter_archive_master.csv and image_prediction_master.csv files and then proceeded to find some insights about the datasets.

I answered 4 questions I posed myself. The 4 questions were:

1. which dog has highest tweet engagement (RTs plus favorites) on the WeRateDogs twitter account

2. which dog has the highest rating on the WeRateDogs twitter account

3. which dog has the lowest rating on the WeRateDogs twitter account

4. most common rating on the WeRateDogs twitter account

For the visualization, I checked for the proportion of each unique value in the dog_stage column of the twitter_archive_master dataset



